Robert McCall lives a quiet life in Boston, where he works at a hardware store. He helps a colleague, Ralphie, train to become a security guard. Unable to sleep, he often spends late nights reading at an all-night diner. Over time, he has befriended Teri, a teenage prostitute trafficked by the Russian mob. The pair often talk about the books Robert has been reading. One evening while taking a stroll, Teri shares that her real name is Alina and that she dreams of becoming a singer. Her pimp Slavi abruptly arrives, hits Alina, and forces her into the car. He hands a stunned Robert his business card and drives away.Alina is badly beaten and admitted into the ICU at a nearby hospital. Upon hearing the news, Robert travels there and learns from her friend Mandy, another prostitute, that Slavi is responsible. Robert finds Slavi and his men at their restaurant and offers to buy Alina's freedom, which Slavi bluntly refuses. Robert expertly kills the men and leaves. Unbeknownst to Robert, Slavi and his men were part of a much larger syndicate led by Russian oligarch Vladimir Pushkin. Teddy Rensen, Pushkin's enforcer, arrives in Boston to investigate the attack. Aided by Boston PD detectives on Pushkin's payroll, Teddy canvases rival gangs in the area, nearly beating Irish mob lieutenant Little John Looney to death to send a message.Robert continues exacting vigilante justice on criminals he encounters, blackmailing two corrupt police officers into returning racketeering money to Ralphie's mother and beating a gunman with a hammer after he robs the hardware store. Teddy kills Mandy after learning she concealed information about Robert and lied about her friendship with Alina. He visits Robert at his apartment, posing as a police detective, but Robert doesn't fall for the guise. Teddy flashes a picture of the strangled Mandy before walking away, offering it as a warning to Robert. Teddy and his mercenary group fail to abduct Robert on two occasions.Robert travels to visit old friends, Susan and Brian Plummer, who are former Defense Intelligence Agency colleagues. Until now, it was assumed that Robert died in a bombing incident long ago. He asks for Susan's help in identifying Teddy. She informs him of Pushkin's operation, and that Teddy's real name is Nikolai Itchenko, a Spetsnaz operative turned Russian secret police agent. She also reveals that Nikolai murdered two of the Boston PD detectives, and that one of them, Masters, had not been heard from in days.Robert tracks Masters down and threatens him into helping take down one of Pushkin's money laundering warehouses. Masters and Pushkin's men are taken into custody when the police arrive, and they find a note left by Robert to follow the money. He confronts Nikolai again, threatening to do more damage if he continues to pursue him. He later destroys two of Pushkin's oil tankers. In response, Nikolai abducts Robert's co-workers at the hardware store to force him to meet. Robert skips the meeting with Nikolai and instead kills the men guarding the hostages, to Nikolai's surprise. Nikolai arrives with his men, whom Robert kills one by one with improvised weapons collected throughout the hardware store. As Nikolai is about to kill Ralphie, who stayed behind to help, Robert kills him with a nail gun.Three days later, Robert finds Pushkin at his mansion in Moscow, killing all of his guards and tricking Pushkin into electrocuting himself to death. Sometime later following her recovery, Alina runs into Robert. She thanks him for the money he left her, describing how she's started a new life. Inspired to continue helping others, Robert posts online ads as The Equalizer.